# Heart-Attack-Analysis
A project that analyses  the disease person to person and the rate of increasing and decreasing.
Heart Disease prediction is one of the most complicated tasks in medical field. In the modern era, approximately one person dies per minute due to heart disease. Data science plays a crucial role in processing huge amount of data in the field of healthcare. As heart disease prediction is a complex task, there is a need to automate the prediction process to avoid risks associated with it and alert the patient well in advance. This paper makes use of heart disease dataset available in UCI machine learning repository. The proposed work predicts the chances of Heart Disease and classifies patient's risk level by implementing different data mining techniques such as Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Logistic Regression and Random Forest. Thus, this paper presents a comparative study by analysing the performance of different machine learning algorithms. The trial results verify that Random Forest algorithm has achieved the highest accuracy of 90.16% compared to other ML algorithms implemented.
The work proposed in this paper focus mainly on various data mining practices that are employed in heart disease prediction. Human heart is the principal part of the human body. Basically, it regulates blood flow throughout our body. Any irregularity to heart can cause distress in other parts of body. Any sort of disturbance to normal functioning of the heart can be classified as a Heart disease. In todays contemporary world, heart disease is one of the primary reasons for occurrence of most deaths. Heart disease may occur due to unhealthy lifestyle, smoking, alcohol and high intake of fat which may cause hypertension. According to the World Health Organization more than 10 million die due to Heart diseases every single year around the world. A healthy lifestyle and earliest detection are only ways to prevent the heart related diseases.
The main challenge in today's healthcare is provision of best quality services and effective accurate diagnosis . Even if heart diseases are found as the prime source of death in the world in recent years, they are also the ones that can be controlled and managed effectively. The whole accuracy in management of a disease lies on the proper time of detection
of that disease. The proposed work makes an attempt to detect these heart diseases at early stage to avoid disastrous consequences.
Records of large set of medical data created by medical experts are available for analysing and extracting valuable knowledge from it. Data mining techniques are the means of extracting valuable and hidden information from the large amount of data available. Mostly the medical database consists of discrete information. Hence, decision making using discrete data becomes complex and tough task. Machine Learning (ML) which is subfield of data mining handles large scale well-formatted dataset efficiently. In the medical field, machine learning can be used for diagnosis, detection and prediction of various diseases. The main goal of this paper is to provide a tool for doctors to detect heart disease as early stage . This in turn will help to provide effective treatment to patients and avoid severe consequences. ML plays a very important role to detect the hidden discrete patterns and thereby analyse the given data. After analysis of data ML techniques help in heart disease prediction and early diagnosis. 
One of the most important organs of the human body is a heart. one of the most common cardiac diseases in India is the heart attack. The heart pumps blood through the circulatory system of the body. In all body part the blood, oxygen is circulated by the circulatory system of the body and if the heart does not work properly then the whole human blood system will be collapsed. So if the heart does not function properly then it will lead to a serious health condition, it could even lead to death.


